After Massive Wildfires, DroneSeed is Replanting Forests 6x Faster By Using Special Drones

When a wildfire destroys the forest on your property, what are your options for restoring 
what has been lost?

DroneSeed will fly a squadron of seed-dispersing aerial robots to lay the foundations for a new 
forest atop ones that have been torched.

Carrying 57 pounds of tree seeds, the drones weigh over 100 pounds in total, and operate in teams 
of five using satellite-guided software to identify hundreds of "microsites" areas where trees 
will be expected to grow the best.

Holders of the only Federal Aviation Administration license for operating "heavy lift drone swarms," 
DroneSeed can seed the ground 6x faster than hand-planting seedlings can covering around 40 acres 
per day at a cost of around $275 to $400 per acre.

This may seem like a lot, but as well as saving a huge amount of time a lot of the cost can be offset 
with discounts offered by DroneSeed if they can successfully offer the lands reforestation as carbon 
credits on the global carbon market. This can help make the cost of planting seedlings 60-70% less 
than traditional reforesting.

"We are always looking for ways to innovate, especially when it can help us increase the pace and 
scale of habitat restoration to benefit both nature and people", says Jay Kerby, Project Manager at 
The Nature Conservancy, which was able to contract DroneSeed for Oregon state reforestation after 
a recent fundraising event.

Right now the company is in beta-testing for their software, but the team feels it's a game changer 
that can be used to totally update the playbook for how to combat global climate emissions.

"Across the world there's been a lot of slash and burn agriculture, so how do you go out and replant 
those in a cost effective way? And that's where our technology comes in", says Grant Canary, CEO of DroneSeed.

An obvious implication is restoration after wildfires on public land, for which DroneSeed would save a 
lot of taxpayer dollars if contracted. But not all American forests are owned by the government, and for 
a private owner DroneSeed could be a real help.
