An Avocado a Day May Keep Your Gut Microbes Happy, Study Shows

Everyone has different gut microbiomes, but eating avocado as part of a daily diet is a 
sure way to improve gut health—a new study from researchers at the University of Illinois shows.

Avocados are a healthy food that is high in dietary fiber and monounsaturated fat. However, 
it was not clear how avocados impact the microbes in the gastrointestinal system or “gut.”

The researchers found that people who ate avocado every day as part of a meal had a greater 
abundance of gut microbes that break down fiber and produce metabolites that support gut health. 
They also had greater microbial diversity compared to people who did not receive the avocado 
meals in the study.

“Microbial metabolites are compounds the microbes produce that influence health,” lead author Sharon 
Thompson says. “Avocado consumption reduced bile acids and increased short chain fatty acids. These 
changes correlate with beneficial health outcomes.”

The study included 163 adults between 25 and 45 years of age with overweight or obesity—defined as a 
BMI of at least 25 kg/m2—but otherwise healthy.

They received one meal per day to consume as a replacement for either breakfast, lunch, or dinner. 
One group consumed an avocado with each meal, while the control group consumed a similar meal but 
without the avocado. The participants provided blood, urine, and fecal samples throughout the 12-week 
study. They also reported how much of the provided meals they consumed, and every four weeks recorded 
everything they ate.

While other research on avocado consumption has focused on weight loss, participants in this study 
were not advised to restrict or change what they ate. Instead they consumed their normal diets with 
the exception of replacing one meal per day with the meal the researchers provided.

The purpose of this study—published in the Journal of Nutrition—was to explore the effects of avocado 
consumption on the gastrointestinal microbiota, says Hannah Holscher, assistant professor of nutrition 
in the Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition at U of I and senior author of the study.

“Our goal was to test the hypothesis that the fats and the fiber in avocados positively affect the gut 
microbiota. We also wanted to explore the relationships between gut microbes and health outcomes,” Holscher says.

Avocados are rich in fat; however, the researchers found that while the avocado group consumed slightly 
more calories than the control group, slightly more fat was excreted in their stool.

“Greater fat excretion means the research participants were absorbing less energy from the foods that 
they were eating. This was likely because of reductions in bile acids, which are molecules our digestion 
system secretes that allow us to absorb fat. We found that the amount of bile acids in stool was lower 
and the amount of fat in the stool was higher in the avocado group,” Holscher explains.

Different types of fats have differential effects on the microbiome. The fats in avocados are 
monounsaturated, which are heart-healthy fats.