Caltech Uses Existing Underwater Cables to Detect Earthquakes and Tsunamis Ahead of Time

Seismologists at Caltech working with optics experts at Google have developed a method to use 
existing underwater telecommunication cables to detect earthquakes. The technique could 
lead to improved earthquake and tsunami warning systems around the world.

A vast network of more than a million kilometers of fiber optic cable lies at the bottom 
of Earth's oceans. In the 1980s, telecommunication companies and governments began laying 
these cables, each of which can span thousands of kilometers. Today, the global network 
is considered the backbone of international telecommunications.

Scientists have long sought a way to use those submerged cables to monitor seismicity. After 
all, more than 70 percent of the globe is covered by water, and it is extremely difficult 
and expensive to install, monitor, and run underwater seismometers to keep track of the 
earth's movements beneath the seas.

What would be ideal, researchers say, is to monitor seismicity by making use of the 
infrastructure already in place along the ocean floor.

Now Zhongwen Zhan, PhD, assistant professor of geophysics at Caltech, and his colleagues 
have come up with a way to analyze the light traveling through lit fibers in other words, 
existing and functioning submarine cables to detect earthquakes and ocean waves without 
the need for any additional equipment. They describe the new method in the February 26 
issue of the journal Science.

"This new technique can really convert the majority of submarine cables into geophysical 
sensors that are thousands of kilometers long to detect earthquakes and possibly tsunamis 
in the future," says Zhan. "We believe this is the first solution for monitoring seismicity 
on the ocean floor that could feasibly be implemented around the world. It could complement 
the existing network of ground-based seismometers and tsunami-monitoring buoys to make the 
detection of submarine earthquakes and tsunamis much faster in many cases."

The cable networks work through the use of lasers that send pulses of information through glass 
fibers bundled within the cables to deliver data at rates faster than 200,000 kilometers per 
second to receivers at the other end, where devices check the state of polarization of each 
signal to see how it has changed along the path of the cable to make sure that the signals 
are not getting mixed.

In their work, the researchers focused on the Curie Cable, a submarine fiber optic cable 
that stretches more than 10,000 kilometers along the eastern edge of the Pacific Ocean from 
Los Angeles to Valparaiso, Chile.

On land, all sorts of disturbances, such as changes in temperature and even lightning strikes, 
can change the polarization of light traveling through fiber optic cables. Because the temperature 
in the deep ocean remains nearly constant and because there are so few disturbances there, the 
change in polarization from one end of the Curie Cable to the other remains quite stable over time, 
Zhan and his colleagues found.

However, during earthquakes and when storms produce large ocean waves, the polarization changes 
suddenly and dramatically, allowing the researchers to easily identify such events in the data.