Nothing Restores a River or Local Economy Like Removing a Dam

Across the United States, 69 river dams were removed from American rivers in next year, opening up 
624 miles of waterways to flow freely.

The work was undertaken with the guidance of American Rivers, a national non-profit that works to 
restore rivers to their natural state.

More than 90,000 dams block rivers across the U.S, but while many might not think of this as a 
problem, the relentless damming of American rivers over the decades has created significant 
detriments to the environment.

Along with disrupting riverine ecosystems, inland marshes, and wetlands "which are important 
ecosystems for many birds" dammed rivers can also dry up downstream from where dams are built.

Damming has been happening for centuries in the U.S, as GNN reported last year, piling up legacy 
sediment and choking rivers. But even more modern dams can be major hazards to rivers and the 
habitats they fragment while soaking up infrastructure tax dollars.

In 2020, dams were removed in South Carolina, Indiana, Washington, Montana, New Hampshire, and 
18 other states helping connect populations of salmon species like Chinook, coho, and pink, as 
well as steelhead, cutthroat, and bull trout, Bartram's bass, greater redhorse, longnose dace, 
and northern brook lamprey the latter three of which are threatened or endangered in the U.S.

The removal of one dam a mile upstream from its confluence with the St. Joseph River, the Elkhart 
River Dam, has helped re-open a key migration route for more than 50 fish and other species moving 
out of the St. Joseph.

A 16-mile stretch of culturally sacred salmon habitat collapsed after a dam was built diverting 
the Middle Fork Nooksack River near Bellingham, Washington.

Removing that dam not only gave the salmon back their habitat, but the Lummi back their culture. 
The Tulalip Tribes is another group that recovered their ancestral salmon habitat, this time along 
the Pilchuck River in Washington state, where two separate dams were completely removed.

In most cases, dams were built long ago to fortify industry, or to supply fresh water and irrigation. 
As technology and population densities have changed over the decades, a surprising amount of dams are 
powering or assisting nothing, and instead act as irrelevant tax leeches.
