Stuck At Home on Earth Day? Here's How to Connect with Nature Right Where You Are

This Earth Day, we're celebrating nature closer to home. And the US Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) 
is giving us great ways to get to know the place we're in.

To this end, the FWS has launched a group of articles and activities specifically for those stuck 
in self-isolation. There are recommendations for famous books on nature by American authors like 
Henry David Thoreau, activities and hobbies for adults and kids, and citizen science practices for 
people who want to become intimate with their environment.

"We can find inspiration in the night sky, motivation in birds that migrate thousands of miles to 
nest in our yards, entertainment in a chorus of spring peepers, and reassurance in a cheerful yellow 
daffodil signaling the return of spring," writes the FWS.

Wherever you are, there may never be a better time than now to pick up a new hobby characteristic of 
tree-huggers, star-gazers, and bird-watchers.

In his classic work on the changing seasons and their character upon his farm in Wisconsin, Aldo Leopold 
detailed in the Sand County Almanac about how he observed everything; the chorus of bird song every 
month; including which were the first birds to begin, which were the last ones to join, and which were 
the last ones to stop; which way the gophers would look upon exiting their burrows; where the wind blew 
during each month; and when every bird arrived and departed on their migratory routes.

So perhaps now is a good time to go to your favorite local spot under a tree, on a bench, wherever there 
is green take out a pen, and start recording what you see, hear, and smell. Can you smell trees while 
they are flowering? Which birds can you hear? Are there insects going about on their own diminutive errands?

There may be a lot more going on than you realize, even in your backyard. Biodiversity is an ecosystem's 
most important asset. It ensures rich supplies of food all the way up the food chain, and resistance to 
diseases which can wipe out ecosystems with weak biodiversity.

Get in touch with this critical aspect of the environment by attempting to make a survey of the biodiversity 
of your garden or lawn. To do this, make a survey plot by sticking 4-5 sticks or pencils in the ground, 
and establish a perimeter of rope or string around them. Note every different species of grass and forbs. 
Grasses are easy to spot; the species name is how we refer to them. Forbs are broad leaf plants like flowers. 
Note every species of insect too.

Try and make several survey plots and measure the biodiversity across your yard.
